expand slice layers page (#752)
buildpacks/docs: content/docs/for-buildpack-authors/how-to/write-buildpacks/create-slice-layers.md

weight=99
+++

After all buildpacks have executed, the contents of the application directory will be included in the final application image as a single layer, OR as `slice` layers. A `slice` layer contains a portion of the application directory as defined by a `filepath` glob.

<!--more-->

`Slices` are useful to avoid re-uploading unchanged data to the image registry. For example, if the application directory is a monolithic repository containing code for both a web frontend and sever backend, buildpacks can slice the directory into separate layers. Thus developers iterating on one part of the code base don't have to wait for the entire directory to re-upload at the end of the build.

## Key Points

* For each `slice`, buildpacks MUST specify zero or more `path globs` such that each path is either:
  * Relative to the root of the app directory without traversing outside of the app directory
  * Absolute and contained within the app directory
* `Path globs` MUST:
  * Follow the pattern syntax defined in the [Go standard library](https://golang.org/pkg/path/filepath/#Match)
  * Match zero or more files or directories

> * `Slices` from earlier buildpacks are processed before `slices` from later buildpacks. When a file is included in a `slice`, it is seen as if it no longer exists in the application directory for processing future `slices`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Slices` from earlier buildpacks are processed before `slices` from later buildpacks. When a file is included in a `slice`, it is as if it no longer exists in the application directory for processing future `slices`.
```

Author: updated

weight=99
+++

> A `Slice` represents a layer in the `<app>` directory to be exported during the `export` phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contents of the application directory (after all buildpacks have executed) will be included in the final application image as a single layer, OR as `slice` layers. A `slice` layer contains a portion of the application directory as defined by a filepath glob.

Slices are useful to avoid re-uploading unchanged data to the image registry. For example, if the application directory is a monolithic repository containing code for both a web frontend and sever backend, buildpacks can slice the directory into separate layers, so that developers iterating on one part of the code base don't have to wait for the entire directory to re-upload at the end of the build.
```

Author: updated

<!--more-->

> A buildpack may specify sub-paths within `<app>` as `slices` in `launch.toml`. The lifecycle will create separate layers during the [export](https://buildpacks.io/docs/for-buildpack-authors/concepts/lifecycle-phases/#phase-5-export) phase for each slice with one or more files or directories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A buildpack may specify sub-paths within `<app>` as `slices` in `launch.toml`. The lifecycle will create separate layers during the [export](https://buildpacks.io/docs/for-buildpack-authors/concepts/lifecycle-phases/#phase-5-export) phase for each slice containing one or more files or directories. Any files in the `<app>` directory that are not included in buildpack-defined slices will be included in the image as a final slice layer.
```

Author: updated

> ## Key Points

Reviewer: I think this section would make more sense after Implementation Steps

Author: re-ordered

* For each `slice`, buildpacks MUST specify zero or more `path globs` such that each path is either:
  * Relative to the root of the app directory without traversing outside of the app directory
  * Absolute and contained within the app directory
* `Path globs` MUST:
  * Follow the pattern syntax defined in the [Go standard library](https://golang.org/pkg/path/filepath/#Match)
  * Match zero or more files or directories

> * The `lifecycle` MUST convert the `<app>` directory into one or more layers using slices in each `launch.toml` such that slices from earlier buildpacks are processed before slices from later buildpacks.
> * The `lifecycle` MUST process each slice as if all files matched in preceding slices no longer exists in the app directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Slices from earlier buildpacks are processed before slices from later buildpacks. When a file is included in a slice, it is as if it no longer exists in the application directory for processing future slices.
```

Author: updated

> * The `lifecycle` MUST accept slices that do not contain any files or directory; however, it MAY warn about such slices
> * The `lifecycle` MUST include all unmatched files in the app directory in any number of additional layers in the `OCI image`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

> ## Use Cases
> 
> * `Slices` aid in optimizing data transfer for files that are commonly shared across applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

<!--more-->

> A buildpack MAY specify sub-paths within `<app>` as `slices` in `launch.toml`. Separate layers MUST be created during the [export](https://buildpacks.io/docs/for-buildpack-authors/concepts/lifecycle-phases/#phase-5-export) phase for each slice with one or more files or directories.

Reviewer: Can we link to the concept page?

> A buildpack MAY specify sub-paths within `<app>` as `slices` in `launch.toml`. Separate layers MUST be created during the [export](https://buildpacks.io/docs/for-buildpack-authors/concepts/lifecycle-phases/#phase-5-export) phase for each slice with one or more files or directories.

Author: which page?
